K
[Music]
Hello, teacher. Hello everyone. My
name is Hung. My biggest wish for Tet
is to go out and not get caught by the police.
[Applause] And what
about your biggest wish? It's to
earn a lot of money to travel.
[Applause]
When I was young,
before Tet, I also had many
wishes and many things I didn't
want, but there was no one to share
them with. Honestly,
I thought about the things I
wished for, I secretly wished for them, but
they never came true, and no one
understood me. I couldn't
share them with anyone,
and the things I didn't want
still happened. When
unwanted things happened,
I felt very
uncomfortable. During Tet, it was a
mix of two emotions:
being able to go out with friends, having a
lot of fun, but then having a lot of
sadness. It made me feel
tired at the end of Tet because the joy and sadness didn't
satisfy me.
On top of that, fatigue, boredom,
and at times feeling meaningless—
happy things seem meaningless, and
sad things feel pointless because there's nothing we can do about them. That's why
I
chose to share with you
what you wish for
and what you don't wish for during Tet (Lunar New Year).
If you
don't have someone to share with, you can
purify yourself. By purifying yourself,
you won't get caught up
in these two conflicting emotions, preventing
your Tet from
going in the wrong direction. I will help
you face the joys first, then the disappointments, and
find happiness in
facing them. That means finding joy in
understanding, my friends. You will have that understanding
and avoid repeating what I experienced.
I
'll share what you've mentioned about not getting caught by the
police when you go out.
Now, let me analyze if this resonates with your psychology.
Getting caught by the police is when
you do something wrong: firstly, drinking alcohol; secondly, drinking beer or
liquor.  Not wearing a helmet,
speeding, and causing accidents—all of
that will bring you
anxiety, no matter how happy you are. The
joy in your heart
will be burdened by
such anxiety. I also have a son, and he went
through the same age as you. I
taught him how to ride a motorbike on the
road. I taught him a lot. I taught him that
if someone told him
not to wear a helmet,
how would he cope?
He would reply, "
If I wear a helmet, I
'll feel out of
place among my
friends." I told him, "Try
it. Everyone has their own
personality, and others will
accept your personality.
Don't follow other
people's personalities."
If you develop a
habit of following others' personalities, you'll always be passive.
Everywhere you go,
you'll be met with ridicule and
mockery.
If you don't follow others, you
should establish your own unique and righteous personality.
Gradually, everyone will submit to your personality;
that's how you
win. Just do this: when your
mother puts on her helmet and you stop at red lights,
no one can abandon you. If you do it
strongly, with a strong personality,
then everyone
will follow
you. And indeed, he did that too,
even at night when there wasn't a soul around, he
still stopped at red lights. A person
with a strong, unwholesome personality will
attract unwholesome people, while a
person with a strong, wholesome personality will
attract wholesome people. If
you only follow others, you will
never stand out, right? So, just strictly
obey traffic laws.
First, you will eliminate the
cause of unease. Truly,
in cause and effect, there are things that we
cannot see with our eyes; only
with wisdom can we see them. If you
have a cause of unease, then this cause of unease...
It will lead you to do things
that cause you losses and failures—
that is the cause of
insecurity, which prevents you from
succeeding. But with just this one small thing,
you have sown the seed of peace and stability, and in
your life, success and
development will follow. A small cause, but
its effect is not small at all.
Therefore, if you want to avoid
suffering and misfortune, you must understand
cause and effect, not just sow
bad seeds and expect good results.
That doesn't exist. The
second desire is to
earn a lot of money and travel.
Everyone wants to travel, but if you
only think, "I want to earn
a lot of money and travel," that
desire won't be realized.
Therefore, the Buddha taught us how to have desires like
this: "I wish to earn money so I can
support my parents, provide for
my wife and children, and have money to treat
my friends well." This desire, this arising of the
mind,  To lead you to
auspicious opportunities, first you must have a
desire for the suffering of those who
lend you
money—people who earn their
money through sweat and blood, who lose it and
suffer greatly. With that kind heart, you must first have the
desire that
your parents will not suffer because of
you. With those two intentions, then you can move on
to other business endeavors.
These two intentions will lead you to meet
people with the right karma, the right connections, and the right perspective to
help you overcome your difficulties.
Remember, karma is very detailed. If you have
one intention, your work
will follow one path, but if you have another
intention, your work will
follow a different path. Because if
you only have the intention of having a lot of money to
travel, that intention is selfish, and
selfishness does not generate
blessings. Do you understand this? It
doesn't generate blessings. In
our hearts, there are many
reserves of blessings and sins. If
your kind heart is born...  How much
merit you have accumulated from the good deeds you sowed in the
past, and how much good karma you have gained, will
flow out through this good heart.
But if you harbor an unwholesome mind,
all the good deeds
you did in the past will flow
out.
Therefore, now that we know the Buddha's
teachings, we should stop the evil mind and cultivate a
good mind so that we can draw all the
blessings from the past back here
to continue cultivating them,
so that we can enjoy
happiness. Dear friends, the Buddha taught that
ignorance and wisdom reside within each person's mind. Good and evil are within the mind,
so blessings and misfortunes are also
within the mind. Therefore, if you skillfully bring
them out, you will enjoy
happiness and peace. If you keep bringing out the
unwholesome part of your mind,
all kinds of suffering will come to you. Therefore,
I hope that this year, as the Lunar New Year approaches, you will know how to
adjust your mind so that you may
be happier.
[Applause]
[Music]
K